Markdown/Mods/Storage.md, before:

# Storage Modifications
[Back To Main File](../../README.md)

## Micro SD Card Guide
- UHS Speed Class 3 - U3
- Application Performance Class 2 - A2
- Slower cards might struggle with bigger games
- Commonly recommended brands:
    - Samsung
    - SanDisk
- Example for a good SD Card
    - ![Samsung EVO Plus 256GB MicroSD Card](../../Images/Storage/Samsung_EVO_PLUS_MicroSD.png)
- With the above recommended specifications most games should work fine:
    - Some recent AAA games started requiring SSDs, read system requirements
    - Using the internal drive instead (NVMe, not 64GB EMMC) will most likely only reduce loading times by a few seconds in big games

## SSD Upgrade / Swap
- Upgrading from 64GB EMMC drive should be a noticeable speed bump in loading times

### Simple Method
- The SSD should be single sided, NVMe M.2 2230
- Lower power consumption is better
    - More battery life
    - Less heat
    - Less likely to cause issues with other components

### Advanced Method
- 2230 to 2280 NVMe adapter
- This makes even higher storage solutions possible (8TB+)
- More heat generated & more power usage (probably)

Commit message:

Updated SD card guide to be more detailed

Markdown/Mods/Storage.md, after:

# Storage Modifications
[Back To Main File](../../README.md)

## Micro SD Card Guide
- [A guide to speed classes for SD and microSD Cards by Kingston](https://www.kingston.com/unitedkingdom/en/blog/personal-storage/memory-card-speed-classes)
- Recommended specifications:
    - UHS Speed Class 3 - U3
    - Application Performance Class 2 - A2
    - Size - 256GB+ (Usually you get better value with higher sizes)
    - Slower cards might struggle with newer games but should be perfectly fine for smaller / indie ones
- Some recommended brands:
    - Samsung
    - SanDisk
- Example for a good SD Card (Samsung EVO Plus 256GB)
    - ![Samsung EVO Plus 256GB MicroSD Card](../../Images/Storage/Samsung_EVO_PLUS_MicroSD.png)
- With the above recommended specifications most games should work fine:
    - Some recent AAA games started requiring SSDs, please read the system requirements (or just experiment, it might be fine?)
    - Using the internal drive instead (NVMe, not 64GB EMMC) will most likely only reduce loading times by a few seconds in big games
- Once you have the microSD card in the Deck, format it in Game Mode (Settings > System > Format SD Card)
- You can transfer games between the internal drive and connected storage devices (Settings > Storage > Browse between devices > Select Content > Select Device To Move To > Move Content)
- Take out the card if you're taking the Deck apart or else it will break

## SSD Upgrade / Swap
- Upgrading from 64GB EMMC drive should be a noticeable speed bump in loading times

### Simple Method
- The SSD should be single sided, NVMe M.2 2230
- Lower power consumption is better
    - More battery life
    - Less heat
    - Less likely to cause issues with other components

### Advanced Method
- 2230 to 2280 NVMe adapter
- This makes even higher storage solutions possible (8TB+)
- More heat generated & more power usage (probably)
