README.md, before:

# Steam-Deck-Hardware
**Information and guides about Steam Deck hardware and modifications - [For software stuff click here](https://github.com/NKkrisz/Steam-Deck-Software)**  
**This project isn't associated with Valve and modifying your device will / may void your warranty.**  
**None of the links are affiliated in any way or are included because of external payment.**  
**If you're the owner of some content mentioned / contained in this repository and want it removed please [contact me (NKkrisz)](https://linktr.ee/nkkrisz)**

## 🧑‍💻 [How To Contribute To This Repository](Markdown/Contributing.md) | [Credits And Sources](Markdown/Credits.md)

## 💵 How To Support Me (NKkrisz) And This Repository
- Consider donating by clicking the button below:  
[![Ko-Fi](https://ko-fi.com/img/githubbutton_sm.svg)](https://ko-fi.com/nkkrisz)  
- By doing so, I might be able to:
    - Get a second used / faulty LCD Deck
    - Upgrade to an OLED Deck which would enable further research
    - Buy more expensive hardware for testing or for modifying Steam Decks

## 👥 Hardware Modding Communities / Resources
- [r/SteamDeckModded Subreddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/SteamDeckModded/)
- [r/SteamDeck_2 Subreddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/SteamDeck_2/)
- [Steam Deck Discord - #hardware-mods channel](https://discord.gg/steamdeck)
- [Stanto's Website (Active Community Member On Steam Deck Discord)](https://www.stanto.com/)

## ⚠️ DISCLAIMER - READ FIRST BEFORE MODIFYING ANYTHING
- **Modifying your device will / may void your warranty!!!**
- **You can see your Deck's original parts here (Select matching serial number from the backplate):**
    - https://store.steampowered.com/account/hardwareused
- **VALVE RECOMMENDS PUTTING THE DEVICE INTO BATTERY STORAGE MODE FOR REPAIRS!!!**
    - [How to turn on battery storage mode](https://www.ifixit.com/Guide/How+to+Enable+Steam+Deck+Battery+Storage+Mode/149962)
        - **MAKE SURE THE BATTERY IS BELOW 80% BEFORE PUTTING IT INTO BATTERY STORAGE MODE, THE LOWER THE BETTER** (though full discharge isn't recommended)
- **TAKE OUT THE SD CARD BEFORE OPENING THE STEAM DECK OR IT WILL BREAK!!!**
- **DISCONNECT THE BATTERY AFTER TAKING OFF THE SHIELDING!!!**

## ⚙️ Different Steam Deck Options, Revisions And Differences

### [Prototypes](Markdown/Prototypes.md)

### [Pre Mass Production](Markdown/Pre_Mass_Production.md)

### LCD Version
- Easily differentiable older / newer revision by looking at shielding above the motherboard

|![Older model (beginning of EV3) and an early model (EV2, sent out as dev kits)](Images/LCD_Revisions/iFixit_Valve_And_Old_LCD.png) | **Older model (beginning of EV3) and an early model (EV2, some early dev kits)** |
|---|---|
|![Newer revision with black shielding and other changes](Images/LCD_Revisions/iFixit_Newer_LCD.png) | **Newer revision with black shielding and other changes** |

### OLED Version
- No known revisions yet (?)

### More Information About Both Can Be Found Here
- [LCD Deck Specifications](https://www.steamdeck.com/en/tech/deck)
- [OLED Deck Specifications](https://www.steamdeck.com/en/tech/oled)
- [LCD Deck revisions and differences](Markdown/LCD_Revisions.md)
- [OLED Deck revisions and differences](Markdown/OLED_Revisions.md)
- [Comparison video between LCD and OLED Deck hardware - Gamers Nexus](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9jhRh11bTRA)

## [🧰 Recommended Tools For Repairing / Modding](Markdown/Tools.md)

## 🛠️ Replacement Parts

### [iFixit (Official Valve partner)](https://store.steampowered.com/news/app/1675200/view/3216144458749237711)
- [iFixit US](https://www.ifixit.com/Parts/Steam_Deck)
- [iFixit EU](https://eustore.ifixit.com/collections/steam-deck-parts)
- [iFixit AUS](https://australia.ifixit.com/collections/steam-deck-parts)

## ✨ Cosmetic Upgrades

### Full Shell Or Backplate Swap
- [Transform LCD Deck Frontplate to fit a OLED Steam Deck](https://www.reddit.com/r/SteamDeckModded/comments/1fhc8zu/how_to_transform_a_lcd_frontplate_to_fit_a_oled/)
- [ExtremeRate](https://extremerate.com/collections/steam-deck-shells)
- [Jsaux](https://jsaux.com/collections/transparent-cover)

### Inputs
- [Custom 3D Printable Action Buttons And D-Pad](https://www.printables.com/model/925407-steam-deck-action-buttons-and-d-pad)
- [ExtremeRate Colored & Transparent Buttons](https://extremerate.com/collections/steam-deck-buttons)
- Etsy stores' resin or other buttons
- [Joystick Cap Painting](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TbqEUB3BqjA)

### Skins / Stickers

## 🪛 Hardware Upgrades

### [Wireless Connectivity (Wifi And Bluetooth)](Markdown/Wireless.md)

### [Storage (SSD And MicroSD)](Markdown/Storage.md)

### [Screen & Screen Protectors](Markdown/Screen.md)

### [Tracking Device (eg. AirTag)](https://www.reddit.com/r/SteamDeck/comments/1aojmq8/added_a_slim_airtag_to_my_steam_deck/)

### [Memory / RAM](Markdown/Memory.md)

### [External GPU](https://www.reddit.com/r/SteamDeck/comments/1eqh47y/franken_deck_abomination/)

### [Dual Battery](https://www.reddit.com/r/SteamDeck/comments/15r2ffl/steam_deck_duel_battery_upgrade/)

### [Dual Screen](https://www.reddit.com/r/SteamDeckModded/comments/1en98vt/my_take_on_dual_screen/)

### [Cooling](Markdown/Cooling.md)

### [Rumble](https://github.com/dawidmpunkt/rumble-for-steamdeck)

### [Inputs](Markdown/Inputs.md)

## 🕹️ Accessories
- [DeckMate - Backplate Addons](https://getmechanism.com/collections/shop-mechanism/deckmate)
- Docks
    - [Valve's Steam Deck Dock](https://www.steamdeck.com/en/dock)
        - Most likely needs an adapter if used with a case on
        - Example adapter: [Project Killswitch - Steam Deck Dock Adapter From Dbrand](https://www.printables.com/model/411302-project-killswitch-steam-deck-dock-adapter)
    - Any brand should work but it's recommended to at least have USB-C PD (Power Delivery) so the Deck remains charged
- Cases
    - [Dbrand - Project Killswitch](https://dbrand.com/shop/grip/steam-deck-cases)
    - Jsaux
        - [Modcase](https://jsaux.com/products/modcase-for-steam-deck-pc0104)
        - [Protective Standing Case](https://jsaux.com/products/upgraded-protective-standing-case-for-steam-deck-pc0105)
    - [Spigen - Rugged Armor](https://www.spigen.com/collections/steam-deck/products/steam-deck-series-case-rugged-armor)
    - [Tomtoc - Armor-G12](https://www.tomtoc.com/products/armor-g12-steam-deck-case)
    - [Mepatem - 3 in 1 Case](https://www.amazon.com/dp/B0BRKWWJJ5)

## 🎮 Fully Transformed Steam Deck Examples
- [RAM, Wifi, Shell, Joystick And Screen Upgrade](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HW1yAWZjGrk)
    - Possible OLED Screen Swap For LCD Decks In The Future?
- [Tablet / Switch Mod](https://www.reddit.com/r/SteamDeckModded/comments/17q4y8q/steamdeck_tablet_mod_and_3d_files_stl_and_step/)
- [Bondi Blue iMac G3](https://www.reddit.com/r/SteamDeckModded/comments/1ev57jz/i_turned_my_deck_into_a_bondi_blue_imac_g3_from/)
- [Giant 4K Screen](https://www.reddit.com/r/SteamDeck/comments/177ffd8/my_13inch_4k_oled_steam_deck/)
- [Half Life Edition](https://www.reddit.com/r/SteamDeckModded/comments/1dd7ymu/steamdeck_oled_half_life_ver/)
- [Portal Edition](https://www.reddit.com/r/SteamDeckModded/comments/1bib04o/introducing_the_steam_deck_oled_portal_edition/)
- [Fully Red](https://www.reddit.com/r/SteamDeck/comments/1cialbj/great_never_again/)
- [GabeCube](https://www.reddit.com/r/SteamDeck/comments/1crzpaq/my_gabecube_is_finally_complete_switch_2_looking/)

## 🧑‍🔧 Troubleshooting, Repair Guides, Parts And Measurements
- [Steam Support - Basic Use & Troubleshooting Guide](https://help.steampowered.com/en/faqs/view/69E3-14AF-9764-4C28)
- [iFixit - Steam Deck LCD Repair Guides](https://www.ifixit.com/Device/Steam_Deck)
- [Steam Deck LCD Parts And Measurements](Markdown/LCD_Parts.md)
- [iFixit - Steam Deck OLED Repair Guides](https://www.ifixit.com/Device/Steam_Deck_OLED)
- [Steam Deck OLED Parts And Measurements](Markdown/OLED_Parts.md)
- [Fixes For Other Issues](Markdown/Fixes.md)
- [Repair Wiki](https://repair.wiki/w/Steam_Deck)

## 👀 Interesting Stuff
- [Steam Deck RGB Mod - Part 1 - I2C Investigation - CalcProgrammer1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CzuZNvp0MOQ)
- [Steam Deck Chip Deep-Dive (Van Gogh/Aerith) - High Yield](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ERm1StY-4uY)
- [Steam Deck Buttons And Joystick Mod For The Steam Controller](https://www.reddit.com/r/SteamControllerMods/comments/1erquuf/update_on_steam_deck_face_button_mod/) - [Tutorial](https://www.reddit.com/r/SteamControllerMods/comments/1exfzic/steam_controller_with_steam_deck_oled_face_button/)

Commit message:

Added page for giant Steam Deck

README.md, after:

# Steam-Deck-Hardware
**Information and guides about Steam Deck hardware and modifications - [For software stuff click here](https://github.com/NKkrisz/Steam-Deck-Software)**  
**This project isn't associated with Valve and modifying your device will / may void your warranty.**  
**None of the links are affiliated in any way or are included because of external payment.**  
**If you're the owner of some content mentioned / contained in this repository and want it removed please [contact me (NKkrisz)](https://linktr.ee/nkkrisz)**

## 🧑‍💻 [How To Contribute To This Repository](Markdown/Contributing.md) | [Credits And Sources](Markdown/Credits.md)

## 💵 How To Support Me (NKkrisz) And This Repository
- Consider donating by clicking the button below:  
[![Ko-Fi](https://ko-fi.com/img/githubbutton_sm.svg)](https://ko-fi.com/nkkrisz)  
- By doing so, I might be able to:
    - Get a second used / faulty LCD Deck
    - Upgrade to an OLED Deck which would enable further research
    - Buy more expensive hardware for testing or for modifying Steam Decks

## 👥 Hardware Modding Communities / Resources
- [r/SteamDeckModded Subreddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/SteamDeckModded/)
- [r/SteamDeck_2 Subreddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/SteamDeck_2/)
- [Steam Deck Discord - #hardware-mods channel](https://discord.gg/steamdeck)
- [Stanto's Website (Active Community Member On Steam Deck Discord)](https://www.stanto.com/)

## ⚠️ DISCLAIMER - READ FIRST BEFORE MODIFYING ANYTHING
- **Modifying your device will / may void your warranty!!!**
- **You can see your Deck's original parts here (Select matching serial number from the backplate):**
    - https://store.steampowered.com/account/hardwareused
- **VALVE RECOMMENDS PUTTING THE DEVICE INTO BATTERY STORAGE MODE FOR REPAIRS!!!**
    - [How to turn on battery storage mode](https://www.ifixit.com/Guide/How+to+Enable+Steam+Deck+Battery+Storage+Mode/149962)
        - **MAKE SURE THE BATTERY IS BELOW 80% BEFORE PUTTING IT INTO BATTERY STORAGE MODE, THE LOWER THE BETTER** (though full discharge isn't recommended)
- **TAKE OUT THE SD CARD BEFORE OPENING THE STEAM DECK OR IT WILL BREAK!!!**
- **DISCONNECT THE BATTERY AFTER TAKING OFF THE SHIELDING!!!**

## ⚙️ Different Steam Deck Options, Revisions And Differences

### [Prototypes](Markdown/Prototypes.md)

### [Pre Mass Production](Markdown/Pre_Mass_Production.md)

### LCD Version
- Easily differentiable older / newer revision by looking at shielding above the motherboard

|![Older model (beginning of EV3) and an early model (EV2, sent out as dev kits)](Images/LCD_Revisions/iFixit_Valve_And_Old_LCD.png) | **Older model (beginning of EV3) and an early model (EV2, some early dev kits)** |
|---|---|
|![Newer revision with black shielding and other changes](Images/LCD_Revisions/iFixit_Newer_LCD.png) | **Newer revision with black shielding and other changes** |

### OLED Version
- No known revisions yet (?)

### More Information About Both Can Be Found Here
- [LCD Deck Specifications](https://www.steamdeck.com/en/tech/deck)
- [OLED Deck Specifications](https://www.steamdeck.com/en/tech/oled)
- [LCD Deck revisions and differences](Markdown/LCD_Revisions.md)
- [OLED Deck revisions and differences](Markdown/OLED_Revisions.md)
- [Comparison video between LCD and OLED Deck hardware - Gamers Nexus](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9jhRh11bTRA)

## [🧰 Recommended Tools For Repairing / Modding](Markdown/Tools.md)

## 🛠️ Replacement Parts

### [iFixit (Official Valve partner)](https://store.steampowered.com/news/app/1675200/view/3216144458749237711)
- [iFixit US](https://www.ifixit.com/Parts/Steam_Deck)
- [iFixit EU](https://eustore.ifixit.com/collections/steam-deck-parts)
- [iFixit AUS](https://australia.ifixit.com/collections/steam-deck-parts)

## ✨ Cosmetic Upgrades

### Full Shell Or Backplate Swap
- [Transform LCD Deck Frontplate to fit a OLED Steam Deck](https://www.reddit.com/r/SteamDeckModded/comments/1fhc8zu/how_to_transform_a_lcd_frontplate_to_fit_a_oled/)
- [ExtremeRate](https://extremerate.com/collections/steam-deck-shells)
- [Jsaux](https://jsaux.com/collections/transparent-cover)

### Inputs
- [Custom 3D Printable Action Buttons And D-Pad](https://www.printables.com/model/925407-steam-deck-action-buttons-and-d-pad)
- [ExtremeRate Colored & Transparent Buttons](https://extremerate.com/collections/steam-deck-buttons)
- Etsy stores' resin or other buttons
- [Joystick Cap Painting](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TbqEUB3BqjA)

### Skins / Stickers

## 🪛 Hardware Upgrades

### [Wireless Connectivity (Wifi And Bluetooth)](Markdown/Wireless.md)

### [Storage (SSD And MicroSD)](Markdown/Storage.md)

### [Screen & Screen Protectors](Markdown/Screen.md)

### [Tracking Device (eg. AirTag)](https://www.reddit.com/r/SteamDeck/comments/1aojmq8/added_a_slim_airtag_to_my_steam_deck/)

### [Memory / RAM](Markdown/Memory.md)

### [External GPU](https://www.reddit.com/r/SteamDeck/comments/1eqh47y/franken_deck_abomination/)

### [Dual Battery](https://www.reddit.com/r/SteamDeck/comments/15r2ffl/steam_deck_duel_battery_upgrade/)

### [Dual Screen](https://www.reddit.com/r/SteamDeckModded/comments/1en98vt/my_take_on_dual_screen/)

### [Cooling](Markdown/Cooling.md)

### [Rumble](https://github.com/dawidmpunkt/rumble-for-steamdeck)

### [Inputs](Markdown/Inputs.md)

## 🕹️ Accessories
- [DeckMate - Backplate Addons](https://getmechanism.com/collections/shop-mechanism/deckmate)
- Docks
    - [Valve's Steam Deck Dock](https://www.steamdeck.com/en/dock)
        - Most likely needs an adapter if used with a case on
        - Example adapter: [Project Killswitch - Steam Deck Dock Adapter From Dbrand](https://www.printables.com/model/411302-project-killswitch-steam-deck-dock-adapter)
    - Any brand should work but it's recommended to at least have USB-C PD (Power Delivery) so the Deck remains charged
- Cases
    - [Dbrand - Project Killswitch](https://dbrand.com/shop/grip/steam-deck-cases)
    - Jsaux
        - [Modcase](https://jsaux.com/products/modcase-for-steam-deck-pc0104)
        - [Protective Standing Case](https://jsaux.com/products/upgraded-protective-standing-case-for-steam-deck-pc0105)
    - [Spigen - Rugged Armor](https://www.spigen.com/collections/steam-deck/products/steam-deck-series-case-rugged-armor)
    - [Tomtoc - Armor-G12](https://www.tomtoc.com/products/armor-g12-steam-deck-case)
    - [Mepatem - 3 in 1 Case](https://www.amazon.com/dp/B0BRKWWJJ5)

## 🎮 Fully Transformed Steam Deck Examples
- [RAM, Wifi, Shell, Joystick And Screen Upgrade](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HW1yAWZjGrk)
    - Possible OLED Screen Swap For LCD Decks In The Future?
- [Tablet / Switch Mod](https://www.reddit.com/r/SteamDeckModded/comments/17q4y8q/steamdeck_tablet_mod_and_3d_files_stl_and_step/)
- [Bondi Blue iMac G3](https://www.reddit.com/r/SteamDeckModded/comments/1ev57jz/i_turned_my_deck_into_a_bondi_blue_imac_g3_from/)
- [Giant 4K Screen](https://www.reddit.com/r/SteamDeck/comments/177ffd8/my_13inch_4k_oled_steam_deck/)
- [Half Life Edition](https://www.reddit.com/r/SteamDeckModded/comments/1dd7ymu/steamdeck_oled_half_life_ver/)
- [Portal Edition](https://www.reddit.com/r/SteamDeckModded/comments/1bib04o/introducing_the_steam_deck_oled_portal_edition/)
- [Fully Red](https://www.reddit.com/r/SteamDeck/comments/1cialbj/great_never_again/)
- [GabeCube](https://www.reddit.com/r/SteamDeck/comments/1crzpaq/my_gabecube_is_finally_complete_switch_2_looking/)

## 🧑‍🔧 Troubleshooting, Repair Guides, Parts And Measurements
- [Steam Support - Basic Use & Troubleshooting Guide](https://help.steampowered.com/en/faqs/view/69E3-14AF-9764-4C28)
- [iFixit - Steam Deck LCD Repair Guides](https://www.ifixit.com/Device/Steam_Deck)
- [Steam Deck LCD Parts And Measurements](Markdown/LCD_Parts.md)
- [iFixit - Steam Deck OLED Repair Guides](https://www.ifixit.com/Device/Steam_Deck_OLED)
- [Steam Deck OLED Parts And Measurements](Markdown/OLED_Parts.md)
- [Fixes For Other Issues](Markdown/Fixes.md)
- [Repair Wiki](https://repair.wiki/w/Steam_Deck)

## 👀 Interesting Stuff
- [How The Giant Steam Deck Was Made For The Tokyo Game Show (2022)](Markdown/Giant_Steam_Deck_TGS_2022.md)
- [Steam Deck RGB Mod - Part 1 - I2C Investigation - CalcProgrammer1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CzuZNvp0MOQ)
- [Steam Deck Chip Deep-Dive (Van Gogh/Aerith) - High Yield](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ERm1StY-4uY)
- [Steam Deck Buttons And Joystick Mod For The Steam Controller](https://www.reddit.com/r/SteamControllerMods/comments/1erquuf/update_on_steam_deck_face_button_mod/) - [Tutorial](https://www.reddit.com/r/SteamControllerMods/comments/1exfzic/steam_controller_with_steam_deck_oled_face_button/)
